README.rst, before:


Internal Conversion Rates from Semiclassical Dynamics
-----------------------------------------------------

The long term goal of this project is to compute rates for internal conversion in medium sized molecules
from semiclassical molecular dynamics.

Milestones
----------

 * implement Herman-Kluk and Walton-Manolopoulos semiclassical propagators (*done*)
 * compare with exact QM rates for _anharmonic_ adiabatic shift (AS) model with 5 (*done*), 10,...,60 modes
 * compare with exact QM rates for _harmonic_ model: AH (*done* for methylium with 6 modes, 12 cartesian coordinates)
 * include Herzberg-Teller effect (coordinate dependence of non-adiabatic coupling vectors)
 * implement Hessians for sGDML force field (*done*)

   
Requirements
------------

Required python packages:

 * pytorch
 * numpy, scipy, matplotlib
 * ase (Atomic Simulation Environment)
 * tqdm

Complex numbers are not supported in older releases of pytorch, 
this code requires pytorch=1.8.0 or higher.
pytorch=1.8.0 is available from the channel pytorch-nightly

.. code-block:: bash

   $ conda install pytorch --channel pytorch-nightly


Getting Started
---------------
The package is installed by running

.. code-block:: bash

   $ pip install -e .
   
in the top directory. Calculations are run via the command line interface `semi`:

- running semiclassical dynamics:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ semi dynamics input.json

- computing rates from correlation functions

.. code-block::
   
   $ semi rates input.json

- plotting correlation functions and rates:

.. code-block::

   $ semi plot correlations.npz
   
- exporting correlation functions and rates to .dat files

.. code-block::
   
   $ semi export correlations.npz
  
- show content of .npz file and IC rates at the adiabatic excitation energy

.. code-block::

   $ semi show correlations.npz

   

-------------
Documentation
-------------

All calculations are controlled by the settings in a command file which is
structured using the JSON format.

=======================
Structure of Input File
=======================

.. code-block:: javascript

   { "semi" : [
      {
      	"task" : "dynamics",
	... keywords ...
      },		
      {		
	"task" : "rates",
	... keywords ...
      },
      ...
   ]}


``task`` determines the type of calculation:
 * **"dynamics"** runs semiclassical dynamics and computes correlation functions.
 * **"rates"** Fourier transforms these correlation functions to obtain transition rates.

Each type of calculation requires different keywords listed below. Tasks can be run separately, since the computational effort associated with obtaining the correlation function is much larger than computing the rates once the correlation functions are ready.

For instance, one could repeatedly run batches of semiclassical trajectories, until the correlation function is converged (to accumulate results from different runs use `overwrite = false`):

.. code-block::
   
   $ semi dynamics input.json

After checking visually that the autocorrelation function equals *C(t=0) = 1*,

.. code-block::
   
   $ semi plot correlations.npz

the rates can be computed with

.. code-block::
   
   $ semi rates input.json

The resulting correlation functions and rates are stored in .npz files.
They can be converted to .dat files with

.. code-block::

   $ semi export correlations.npz

which should create the files called `autocorrelation.dat`, `ic_correlation.dat` and `ic_rate.dat`.

See also the examples for input files at the end.

============================
Keywords for "dynamics" task
============================
    
.. topic:: ``potential``

   | **Description:** Block defining the potential.
   | **Datatype:** JSON
   | **Keywords:**
   |
   |          ``type``
   |
   |             **Description:** Chooses type of potential. Different potentials have different keywords.
   |             **Datatype:** string
   |                - *'anharmonic AS'* :  anharmonic adiabatic shift model ( [anharmAS]_ )
   |                - *'harmonic'*      :  The molecular potential of the ground and excited state
   |                                       are expanded harmonically around equilibrium geometries.
   |                - *'gdml'*          :  gradient-domain machine-learned potentials ( [sGDML]_ )
   |
   | Keywords for the 'anharmonic AS' potential:
   | 
   |          ``model_file``
   |
   |		 **Description:** Path to file with vibrational frequencies (in cm-1), Huang-Rhys
   |                 factors and non-adiabatic couplings for each vibrational mode.
   |             **Datatype:** string
   |
   |          ``anharmonicity``
   |
   |             **Description:** Degree of anharmonicity chi (0 : harmonic, > 0.0 : anharmonic)
   |             **Datatype:** float
   |
   | Keywords for the 'harmonic' potential:
   |
   |          ``ground``
   |
   |             **Description:** Path to formatted checkpoint file from frequency calculation
   |                 at the ground state minimum.
   |             **Datatype:** string (path to fchk-file)
   |
   |          ``excited``
   |
   |             **Description:** Path to formatted checkpoint file from frequency calculation
   |                 at the excited state minimum.
   |             **Datatype:** string (path to fchk-file)
   |
   |          ``coupling``
   |
   |             **Description:** Path to formatted checkpoint file with the non-adiabatic coupling
   |                 vector between the ground and excited state.
   |             **Datatype:** string (path to fchk-file)
   |
   | Keywords for the 'gdml' potential:
   |
   |          ``ground``
   |
   |             **Description:** Path to sGDML model trained to reproduce ground state energies,
   |                 gradients and Hessians.
   |             **Datatype:** string (path to npz-file)
   |
   |          ``excited``
   |
   |             **Description:** Path to formatted checkpoint file from frequency calculation
   |                 at the excited state minimum.
   |             **Datatype:** string (path to fchk-file)
   |
   |          ``coupling``
   |
   |             **Description:** Path to formatted checkpoint file with the non-adiabatic coupling
   |                 vector between the ground and excited state. The atomic masses are taken from
   |                 this file.
   |             **Datatype:** string (path to fchk-file)


.. topic:: ``propagator``

   | **Description:** Name of the semiclassical propagator
   | **Datatype:** string
   |    - 'HK' :  Herman & Kluk propagator (see [HK]_)
   |    - 'WM' :  Walton & Manolopoulos propagator (see [WM]_)
   | **Default:** ``HK``

.. topic:: ``num_steps``

   | **Description:** Number of time steps for dynamics.
   | **Datatype:** integer

.. topic:: ``time_step_fs``

   | **Description:** Duration of a single time step in fs.
   | **Datatype:** float
  
.. topic:: ``num_trajectories``

   | **Description:** Total number of trajectories. ``batch_size`` trajectories are run in parallel.
   | **Datatype:** integer
   | **Default:** 50000
  
.. topic:: ``batch_size``

   | **Description:** ``batch_size`` trajectories are run in parallel.
   |     If memory is limited, the batch size should be reduced. 
   | **Datatype:** integer
   | **Default:** 10000

.. topic:: ``results``

   | **Description:** Controls how results of the dynamics calculation are stored on file.
   | **Datatype:** JSON
   | **Keywords:**
   |
   |          ``correlations``
   |
   |             **Description:** Name of file where results will be written to in npz-format.
   |                 This binary file can be read with numpy. It contains the autocorrelation and correlation function
   |                 for internal conversion on the equidistant grid specified by `num_steps` and `time_step_fs`.
   |             **Datatype:** string
   |             **Default:** 'correlations.npz'
   |
   |          ``overwrite``
   |
   |		 **Description:** If set to true an existing npz-file is overwritten.
   |                 Otherwise correlation functions from different runs are accumulated.
   |             **Datatype:** boolean
   |             **Default:** true

.. topic:: ``manual_seed``

   | **Description:** Initial values for positions and momenta are drawn randomly.
   |     To make the random numbers reproducible between runs,
   |     a manual seed for the random number generator can be provided.
   | **Datatype:** integer
   | **Default:** None
   | **Recommendation:** Avoid seeding the RNG manually.

   
=========================
Keywords for "rates" task
=========================

.. topic:: ``correlations``

   | **Description:** Converged correlation functions are read from this npz-file.
   | **Datatype:** string
   | **Default:** 'correlations.npz'

.. topic:: ``rates``

   | **Description:** Transition rates are written to this npz-file.
   | **Datatype:** string
   | **Default:** 'correlations.npz'

.. topic:: ``broadening``

   | **Description:** Lineshape function (*'gaussian'*, *'lorentzian'* or *'voigtian'*)
   | **Datatype:** string
   | **Default:** 'gaussian'

.. topic:: ``hwhmG_ev``

   | **Description:** Gaussian width of lineshape function in energy domain (in eV)
   | **Datatype:** float
   | **Default:** 0.01

.. topic:: ``hwhmL_ev``

   | **Description:** Lorentzian width of lineshape function in energy domain (in eV)
   | **Datatype:** float
   | **Default:** 1.0e-6
	   


--------
Examples
--------

==============================
with 'anharmonic AS' potential
==============================

.. code-block:: javascript

  { "semi" : [
    {
	"task" : "dynamics",
	"potential" : {
	    "type"          : "anharmonic AS",
	    "model_file"    : "AS_model.dat",
	    "anharmonicity" : 0.02
	},
	"propagator" : "HK",
	"batch_size"            : 10000,
	"num_trajectories"      : 50000,
	"num_steps"             : 10000,
	"time_step_fs"          : 0.001,
	"results" : {
	    "correlations"      : "correlations.npz",
	    "overwrite"         : false
	},
	"manual_seed"           : 0
    },
    {
        "task"  : "rates",
	"broadening"   : "gaussian",
	"hwhm_ev"      : 0.001,
	"correlations" : "correlations.npz",
	"rates"        : "correlations.npz"
    }
  ]}


=========================
with 'harmonic' potential
=========================

.. code-block:: javascript

  { "semi" : [
    {
	"task" : "dynamics",
	"potential" : {
	    "type"      : "harmonic",
	    "ground"    : "opt_freq_s0.fchk",
	    "excited"   : "opt_freq_s1.fchk",
	    "coupling"  : "opt_freq_s1.fchk"
	},
	"propagator" : "HK",
	"batch_size"            : 1000,
	"num_trajectories"      : 2000,
	"num_steps"             : 10,
	"time_step_fs"          : 0.001,
	"results" : {
	    "correlations"      : "correlations.npz"
	}
    },
    {
        "task"  : "rates",
	"broadening"   : "gaussian",
	"hwhm_ev"      : 0.001,
	"correlations" : "correlations.npz",
	"rates"        : "correlations.npz"
    }
  ]}

  
=====================
with 'gdml' potential
=====================

.. code-block:: javascript

  { "semi" : [
    {
	"task" : "dynamics",
	"potential" : {
	    "type"      : "gdml",
	    "ground"    : "pot_s0.npz",
	    "excited"   : "opt_freq_s1.fchk",
	    "coupling"  : "opt_freq_s1.fchk"
	},
	"propagator" : "HK",
	"batch_size"            : 1000,
	"num_trajectories"      : 2000,
	"num_steps"             : 10,
	"time_step_fs"          : 0.001,
	"results" : {
	    "correlations"      : "correlations.npz"
	}
    },
    {
        "task"  : "rates",
	"broadening"   : "gaussian",
	"hwhm_ev"      : 0.001,
	"correlations" : "correlations.npz",
	"rates"        : "correlations.npz"
    }
  ]}


----------
References
----------

.. [HK] E. Kluk, M. Herman, H. Davis,
   *Comparison of the propagation of semiclassical frozen Gaussian wave functions with quantum propagation for a highly excited anharmonic oscillator*
   J. Chem. Phys. 84, 326, (1986)
   https://doi.org/10.1063/1.450142
       
.. [WM] A. Walton, D. Manolopoulos,
   *A new semiclassical initial value method for Franck-Condon spectra*
   Mol. Phys. 87, 961-978, (1996)
   https://doi.org/10.1080/00268979600100651
     
.. [sGDML] S. Chmiela et al.
   *sGDML: Constructing Accurate and Data Efficient Molecular Force Fields Using Machine Learning.*
   Comput. Phys. Commun. 240, 38-45 (2019)
   https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cpc.2019.02.007 
   https://github.com/stefanch/sGDML
   
.. [anharmAS] A. Humeniuk et al.
   *Predicting fluorescence quantum yields for molecules in solution: A critical assessment of the harmonic approximation and the choice of the lineshape function*
   J. Chem. Phys. 152, 054107 (2020)
   https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5143212

Commit message:

fix dissociation limit by adding scaled geometries where all bonds are broken

README.rst, after:


Internal Conversion Rates from Semiclassical Dynamics
-----------------------------------------------------

The long term goal of this project is to compute rates for internal conversion in medium sized molecules
from semiclassical molecular dynamics.

Milestones
----------

 * implement Herman-Kluk and Walton-Manolopoulos semiclassical propagators (*done*)
 * compare with exact QM rates for _anharmonic_ adiabatic shift (AS) model with 5 (*done*), 10,...,60 modes
 * compare with exact QM rates for _harmonic_ model: AH (*done* for methylium with 6 modes, 12 cartesian coordinates)
 * include Herzberg-Teller effect (coordinate dependence of non-adiabatic coupling vectors)
 * implement Hessians for sGDML force field (*done*)

   
Requirements
------------

Required python packages:

 * pytorch
 * numpy, scipy, matplotlib
 * ase (Atomic Simulation Environment)
 * tqdm

Complex numbers are not supported in older releases of pytorch, 
this code requires pytorch=1.8.0 or higher.
pytorch=1.8.0 is available from the channel pytorch-nightly

.. code-block:: bash

   $ conda install pytorch --channel pytorch-nightly


Getting Started
---------------
The package is installed by running

.. code-block:: bash

   $ pip install -e .
   
in the top directory. Calculations are run via the command line interface `semi`:

- running semiclassical dynamics:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ semi dynamics input.json

- computing rates from correlation functions

.. code-block::
   
   $ semi rates input.json

- plotting correlation functions and rates:

.. code-block::

   $ semi plot correlations.npz
   
- exporting correlation functions and rates to .dat files

.. code-block::
   
   $ semi export correlations.npz
  
- show content of .npz file and IC rates at the adiabatic excitation energy

.. code-block::

   $ semi show correlations.npz

   

-------------
Documentation
-------------

All calculations are controlled by the settings in a command file which is
structured using the JSON format.

=======================
Structure of Input File
=======================

.. code-block:: javascript

   { "semi" : [
      {
      	"task" : "dynamics",
	... keywords ...
      },		
      {		
	"task" : "rates",
	... keywords ...
      },
      ...
   ]}


``task`` determines the type of calculation:
 * **"dynamics"** runs semiclassical dynamics and computes correlation functions.
 * **"rates"** Fourier transforms these correlation functions to obtain transition rates.

Each type of calculation requires different keywords listed below. Tasks can be run separately, since the computational effort associated with obtaining the correlation function is much larger than computing the rates once the correlation functions are ready.

For instance, one could repeatedly run batches of semiclassical trajectories, until the correlation function is converged (to accumulate results from different runs use `overwrite = false`):

.. code-block::
   
   $ semi dynamics input.json

After checking visually that the autocorrelation function equals *C(t=0) = 1*,

.. code-block::
   
   $ semi plot correlations.npz

the rates can be computed with

.. code-block::
   
   $ semi rates input.json

The resulting correlation functions and rates are stored in .npz files.
They can be converted to .dat files with

.. code-block::

   $ semi export correlations.npz

which should create the files called `autocorrelation.dat`, `ic_correlation.dat` and `ic_rate.dat`.

See also the examples for input files at the end.

============================
Keywords for "dynamics" task
============================
    
.. topic:: ``potential``

   | **Description:** Block defining the potential.
   | **Datatype:** JSON
   | **Keywords:**
   |
   |          ``type``
   |
   |             **Description:** Chooses type of potential. Different potentials have different keywords.
   |             **Datatype:** string
   |                - *'anharmonic AS'* :  anharmonic adiabatic shift model ( [anharmAS]_ )
   |                - *'harmonic'*      :  The molecular potential of the ground and excited state
   |                                       are expanded harmonically around equilibrium geometries.
   |                - *'gdml'*          :  gradient-domain machine-learned potentials ( [sGDML]_ )
   |
   | Keywords for the 'anharmonic AS' potential:
   | 
   |          ``model_file``
   |
   |		 **Description:** Path to file with vibrational frequencies (in cm-1), Huang-Rhys
   |                 factors and non-adiabatic couplings for each vibrational mode.
   |             **Datatype:** string
   |
   |          ``anharmonicity``
   |
   |             **Description:** Degree of anharmonicity chi (0 : harmonic, > 0.0 : anharmonic)
   |             **Datatype:** float
   |
   | Keywords for the 'harmonic' potential:
   |
   |          ``ground``
   |
   |             **Description:** Path to formatted checkpoint file from frequency calculation
   |                 at the ground state minimum.
   |             **Datatype:** string (path to fchk-file)
   |
   |          ``excited``
   |
   |             **Description:** Path to formatted checkpoint file from frequency calculation
   |                 at the excited state minimum.
   |             **Datatype:** string (path to fchk-file)
   |
   |          ``coupling``
   |
   |             **Description:** Path to formatted checkpoint file with the non-adiabatic coupling
   |                 vector between the ground and excited state.
   |             **Datatype:** string (path to fchk-file)
   |
   | Keywords for the 'gdml' potential:
   |
   |          ``ground``
   |
   |             **Description:** Path to sGDML model trained to reproduce ground state energies,
   |                 gradients and Hessians.
   |             **Datatype:** string (path to npz-file)
   |
   |          ``excited``
   |
   |             **Description:** Path to formatted checkpoint file from frequency calculation
   |                 at the excited state minimum.
   |             **Datatype:** string (path to fchk-file)
   |
   |          ``coupling``
   |
   |             **Description:** Path to formatted checkpoint file with the non-adiabatic coupling
   |                 vector between the ground and excited state. The atomic masses are taken from
   |                 this file.
   |             **Datatype:** string (path to fchk-file)


.. topic:: ``propagator``

   | **Description:** Name of the semiclassical propagator
   | **Datatype:** string
   |    - 'HK' :  Herman & Kluk propagator (see [HK]_)
   |    - 'WM' :  Walton & Manolopoulos propagator (see [WM]_)
   | **Default:** ``HK``

.. topic:: ``num_steps``

   | **Description:** Number of time steps for dynamics.
   | **Datatype:** integer

.. topic:: ``time_step_fs``

   | **Description:** Duration of a single time step in fs.
   | **Datatype:** float
  
.. topic:: ``num_trajectories``

   | **Description:** Total number of trajectories. ``batch_size`` trajectories are run in parallel.
   | **Datatype:** integer
   | **Default:** 50000
  
.. topic:: ``batch_size``

   | **Description:** ``batch_size`` trajectories are run in parallel.
   |     If memory is limited, the batch size should be reduced. 
   | **Datatype:** integer
   | **Default:** 10000

.. topic:: ``results``

   | **Description:** Controls how results of the dynamics calculation are stored on file.
   | **Datatype:** JSON
   | **Keywords:**
   |
   |          ``correlations``
   |
   |             **Description:** Name of file where results will be written to in npz-format.
   |                 This binary file can be read with numpy. It contains the autocorrelation and correlation function
   |                 for internal conversion on the equidistant grid specified by `num_steps` and `time_step_fs`.
   |             **Datatype:** string
   |             **Default:** 'correlations.npz'
   |
   |          ``overwrite``
   |
   |		 **Description:** If set to true an existing npz-file is overwritten.
   |                 Otherwise correlation functions from different runs are accumulated.
   |             **Datatype:** boolean
   |             **Default:** true

.. topic:: ``manual_seed``

   | **Description:** Initial values for positions and momenta are drawn randomly.
   |     To make the random numbers reproducible between runs,
   |     a manual seed for the random number generator can be provided.
   | **Datatype:** integer
   | **Default:** None
   | **Recommendation:** Avoid seeding the RNG manually.

   
=========================
Keywords for "rates" task
=========================

.. topic:: ``correlations``

   | **Description:** Converged correlation functions are read from this npz-file.
   | **Datatype:** string
   | **Default:** 'correlations.npz'

.. topic:: ``rates``

   | **Description:** Transition rates are written to this npz-file.
   | **Datatype:** string
   | **Default:** 'correlations.npz'

.. topic:: ``broadening``

   | **Description:** Lineshape function (*'gaussian'*, *'lorentzian'* or *'voigtian'*)
   | **Datatype:** string
   | **Default:** 'gaussian'

.. topic:: ``hwhmG_ev``

   | **Description:** Gaussian width of lineshape function in energy domain (in eV)
   | **Datatype:** float
   | **Default:** 0.01

.. topic:: ``hwhmL_ev``

   | **Description:** Lorentzian width of lineshape function in energy domain (in eV)
   | **Datatype:** float
   | **Default:** 1.0e-6
	   


--------
Examples
--------

==============================
with 'anharmonic AS' potential
==============================

.. code-block:: javascript

  { "semi" : [
    {
	"task" : "dynamics",
	"potential" : {
	    "type"          : "anharmonic AS",
	    "model_file"    : "AS_model.dat",
	    "anharmonicity" : 0.02
	},
	"propagator" : "HK",
	"batch_size"            : 10000,
	"num_trajectories"      : 50000,
	"num_steps"             : 10000,
	"time_step_fs"          : 0.001,
	"results" : {
	    "correlations"      : "correlations.npz",
	    "overwrite"         : false
	},
	"manual_seed"           : 0
    },
    {
        "task"  : "rates",
	"broadening"   : "gaussian",
	"hwhm_ev"      : 0.001,
	"correlations" : "correlations.npz",
	"rates"        : "correlations.npz"
    }
  ]}


=========================
with 'harmonic' potential
=========================

.. code-block:: javascript

  { "semi" : [
    {
	"task" : "dynamics",
	"potential" : {
	    "type"      : "harmonic",
	    "ground"    : "opt_freq_s0.fchk",
	    "excited"   : "opt_freq_s1.fchk",
	    "coupling"  : "opt_freq_s1.fchk"
	},
	"propagator" : "HK",
	"batch_size"            : 1000,
	"num_trajectories"      : 2000,
	"num_steps"             : 10,
	"time_step_fs"          : 0.001,
	"results" : {
	    "correlations"      : "correlations.npz"
	}
    },
    {
        "task"  : "rates",
	"broadening"   : "gaussian",
	"hwhm_ev"      : 0.001,
	"correlations" : "correlations.npz",
	"rates"        : "correlations.npz"
    }
  ]}

  
=====================
with 'gdml' potential
=====================

.. code-block:: javascript

  { "semi" : [
    {
	"task" : "dynamics",
	"potential" : {
	    "type"      : "gdml",
	    "ground"    : "pot_s0.npz",
	    "excited"   : "opt_freq_s1.fchk",
	    "coupling"  : "opt_freq_s1.fchk"
	},
	"propagator" : "HK",
	"batch_size"            : 1000,
	"num_trajectories"      : 2000,
	"num_steps"             : 10,
	"time_step_fs"          : 0.001,
	"results" : {
	    "correlations"      : "correlations.npz"
	}
    },
    {
        "task"  : "rates",
	"broadening"   : "gaussian",
	"hwhm_ev"      : 0.001,
	"correlations" : "correlations.npz",
	"rates"        : "correlations.npz"
    }
  ]}


---------------
GDML potentials
---------------
ML potentials can be very accurate for interpolating, but terribly wrong when extrapolating
outside the range of the training data. In particular the dissociation limit will be completely wrong
(even -infinity), unless the training data is augmented with structures where bonds are broken. 

Suppose that `forces_0.xyz` contains geometries, energies and forces sampled from a ground state
MD at constant temperature. Based on these samples a GDML potential is trained. To correct
the dissociation limit the samples around the equilibrium geometry are augmented by a set of
scaled geometries, where all coordinates are multiplied by a factor, so that all bonds are broken.
The energy of these structures should be equal to the sum of the energies of the isolated atoms
and the forces should be zero. Adding these structures to the data set ensures a qualitatively
correct dissociation limit.

augment a data set with scaled geometries:

.. code-block::

   $ sgdml_postprocess_extxyz.py  forces_0.xyz  forces_0-augmented.xyz  --fix_dissociation

By default the dissociation energy is computed from the atomic wB97XD/def2SVP energies.
The dissociation limit (in Hartree) may also be set explicitly:

.. code-block::

   $ sgdml_postprocess_extxyz.py  forces_0.xyz  forces_0-augmented.xyz  --fix_dissociation --dissoc_limit=-150.0


----------
References
----------

.. [HK] E. Kluk, M. Herman, H. Davis,
   *Comparison of the propagation of semiclassical frozen Gaussian wave functions with quantum propagation for a highly excited anharmonic oscillator*
   J. Chem. Phys. 84, 326, (1986)
   https://doi.org/10.1063/1.450142
       
.. [WM] A. Walton, D. Manolopoulos,
   *A new semiclassical initial value method for Franck-Condon spectra*
   Mol. Phys. 87, 961-978, (1996)
   https://doi.org/10.1080/00268979600100651
     
.. [sGDML] S. Chmiela et al.
   *sGDML: Constructing Accurate and Data Efficient Molecular Force Fields Using Machine Learning.*
   Comput. Phys. Commun. 240, 38-45 (2019)
   https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cpc.2019.02.007 
   https://github.com/stefanch/sGDML
   
.. [anharmAS] A. Humeniuk et al.
   *Predicting fluorescence quantum yields for molecules in solution: A critical assessment of the harmonic approximation and the choice of the lineshape function*
   J. Chem. Phys. 152, 054107 (2020)
   https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5143212
